[Music]
every year the next big thing emerges on
the smartphone market and here you are
once again deciding the fate of your
current fall if you think it's time to
finally move on hold your horses
you don't want to sell your old phone
without going through the right steps
number one remove all pair devices one
of the handiest things about smart
devices is that you can link them you
get a message it'll be on your
SmartWatch
you can share your notes and calendar
between your phone tablet and laptops
seamlessly convenient yes but it's just
as easy to forget to unpair them do that
first and only then take care of your
phone to back your files up don't rush
to reset your phone just yet that'll be
later you don't want to lose all the
good memories and important information
you may have attached to your device
simply synchronizing it may not work
here just back it up manually it's not
that hard to do
start with your pictures music and other
files if you have any network disk app
on your Android phone it probably
already uploads all the photos you have
if not then get yourself covered with
any of them in the App Store most of
them are free and after signing up
you'll get some free space on a cloud
drive where you can store your stuff or
you can simply plug your smartphone into
a PC and manually transfer all the files
you need just don't forget to delete
them from your phone after that it's
pretty much the same on an iPhone
connected to your computer then import
all the pictures from image capture or
iPhoto now you can remove them from your
phone just curious have you ever sold a
phone let me know how it went down to
the comments number 3 backup account
information Apple users you have two
ways to go about this through iTunes or
iCloud either way you need to connect
your phone to a computer select the
device you want to backup go to the
summary tab and then choose the backups
menu here you can click on the backup
Now button and you're all set
in iCloud you just need the storage and
backup menu whatever you do don't erase
the contact information on your phone
manually it could get deleted from your
account too if it wasn't backed up
beforehand Android users will find the
backup menu in the phone settings then
it'll ask you to choose a platform to
backup your data to most of the time
that will be linked to your Google
account automatically but it won't hurt
to double-check for delete apps manually
resetting the phone may leave behind
some cached information from apps and
this cache could include your personal
info or even saved passwords deleting
apps manually is a better way to go but
it's not the only step to take if you're
concerned about security more tips on
that later five turn off all the
anti-theft measurements anti-theft apps
and functions in your phone's OS can
help you remotely delete all data but
you won't need it if you're following
all these steps and if the buyer tries
to use your device with this function
still on it don't have a hard time so
just find the anti-theft stuff in your
settings and switch it off if you have
some additional anti-theft gaps get rid
of them to six encrypt data on your
phone all apps are gone all the files
are backed up and deleted but there
still might be some leftover information
and it's always better to encrypt it
encrypting let you mix data around so it
becomes unintelligible
without proper access to it most
smartphones OS have their data encrypted
by default but this data needs further
protection with a passcode iPhone users
will find how to set one up in touch ID
and passcode settings just turn the
passcode on near the bottom of this menu
you will find an option to make your
passcode more complex and therefore less
breakable an additional option here will
allow you to set a limit to attempts of
authorization Android users will find
the option to encrypt data and set a
passcode in the security settings menu 7
prepare your phone for the factory reset
do this only after you encrypt data
because you're about to cross the point
of no
turn a Google account protects your
Android from the factory reset by
default so you need to remove that
account from your device before you do
this step go to the settings then
accounts and sync tap on the Google icon
and choose to remove it that's it for
iPhones go to the Settings app menu
choose the messages line and turn off
iMessage go back to the Settings app and
turn off FaceTime to then all that's
left to do is sign out of iCloud and an
Apple ID 8 reset your phone it's finally
time to say the last goodbye to your old
friend Android users will find the right
option in the backup and reset menu of
their settings for iOS it's in the
general tab under settings resetting to
factory settings takes time and energy
so it'll drain the battery fast don't
forget to fully charge your phone before
you do it but you still might not be
entirely ready to part with your phone
forever 9 some additional tips and
tricks Apple is both the manufacturer
and the software developer for its
product line which means they can
provide an extra security step if you're
wanting to sell it you can contact them
to unregister your smartphone so that
the new user can start working with it
from scratch you can also help the buyer
by contacting your carrier and asking
them to detach your phone from your
account
check the battery's health and overall
condition before selling your phone it
should at least shift the price one way
or another in iOS this function is built
into the system you need to go to
settings then battery and tap on battery
health here you'll see if your phone can
typically work at full capacity or if
not what your battery's maximum capacity
is androids have access to a variety of
apps capable of running full health
diagnostics for every system in the
phone including the battery it isn't
necessary after all the steps you took
but you can protect your personal
information even further by filling your
smartphone with dummy data copy some
larger files to the memory and encrypt
it once again this way any
left over data on the phone becomes
absolutely inaccessible except if you
use USB debugging but it can also be
blocked you can get to the USB debugging
through the settings menu while the
phone is connected to a PC or laptop but
if it's someone else they can also
collect your data using this option so
you might want to leave one app on your
phone and make it an app blocker it can
restrict access even to the settings
menu just set up a password and leave it
only to the buyer well as long as you
trust that they won't try to access that
personal data if for some reason you
weren't able to follow these steps
before selling your smartphone then try
to recall if anti-theft apps were still
on it when you did that remember you can
use them to remotely delete all your
leftover data but you should probably
contact the new owner before that if you
can't and ask them if it's alright it's
always better to agree on everything in
this kind of deal hey if you learned
something new today then give the video
a like and share with a friend and here
are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life